## 1. 
 1 
 Driver HV - DRC -

The 
 DRC driver is located in the ACL module and has the following characteristics:

- 
 DC 
 generator with programmable voltage and current limit

- 
 Operation 
 in the four quadrants

- 
 Output 
 voltage value: 100V

- 
 Output 
 current value: 0,1A

- 
 Two 
 carriers in current (10/100mA 
 and 0,1/10mA)

- 
 Slew 
 rate: 10V/s

- 
 Resolution 
 for current and voltage values on 14 bit

### 1.1.1 METHOD 
 CLEAR

The 
 method CLEAR is used to deactivate the DRC 
 driver disconnecting it from measurement lines and switching off the voltage 
 booster.

It sends to 
 the instrument a reset command which sets the parameters of the instrument 
 to the default values. (Described in Tab. 51, of appendix A).

Syntax

#### VIVA LANGUAGE

~CLEAR 
 DRC;

### 1.1.2 METHOD 
 SET

Syntax

#### VIVA LANGUAGE

~SET DRC 
 [V=value] [I=value] 
 [OUT=NONE|L1|L2|L4|L6|]

[START=IMMEDIATE|SW1];

Detail of parameters

V=value 
 [-100 +100V, default: 0V]

Indicates 
 the programming value of the maximum voltage output by the instrument.

I=value 
 [0,0001-0,1A, default: 0,01A]

Indicates 
 the programming value of the maximum current output by the instrument.

OUT=option|value 
 [NONE|L1|L2|L4|L6, default: NONE]

Defines 
 the line of the ACL module to which is connected the DRC output. The possible 
 values are:

NONE | 0 The instrument 
 is not connected to an internal measurement line.

L1 | 1 
 the instrument 
 output is connected to the internal measurement line L1.

L2 | 2 
 the instrument 
 output is connected to the internal measurement line L2.

L4 | 4 
 the instrument 
 output is connected to the internal measurement line L4.

L6 | 6 
 the instrument 
 output is connected to the internal measurement line L6.

START=option|value 
 [IMMEDIATE|SW1, 
 default:IMMEDIATE]

Indicates 
 the start mode to generate the signal. The possible values of this parameter 
 are:

IMMEDIATE | 0 The generation 
 of the output signal is immediate.

SW1 | 1 
 The generation 
 of the output signal starts with the event Trigger SW1, which can be 
 generated by the instruments IMM and SCOUNTER.