## 1. 
 1 
 COUNTER/FREQUENCY METER/Timer 
 -SCOUNTER -

The 
 instrument SCOUNTER is located 
 in the ACL module and has 
 the following features:

- 
 Two 
 input channels: CHA for the Start Event CHB and Stop Event

- 
 Programmable 
 thresholds

- 
 Programmable 
 fronts

- 
 Input 
 high voltage range ( 10V/ 100V)

- 
 High 
 impedance input (100K/1M)

### 1.1.1 METHOD CLEAR

The 
 method CLEAR is used to disable and free the 
 resources from the instrument, see channels CHA and CHB, disconnecting 
 it from the measurement lines.

Syntax

#### VIVA LANGUAGE

~CLEAR 
 SCOUNTER;

### 1.1.2 METHOD SET

The method 
 SETis 
 used to program the instrument SCOUNTER 
 to execute: pulse counter, frequency and time interval measurements.

Syntax

#### VIVA LANGUAGE

~SET 
 SCOUNTER

[VAL=value] 
 [LEVEL_A=value] [LEVEL_B=value]

[SLOPE_A=POS|NEG] 
 [SLOPE_B= POS|NEG]

[INP_A=NONE|L4|L6] 
 [RANGE_A=|10V|100V|10V_50]

[DELAY_TRIG=value]

[INP_B=NONE|L2|L8] 
 [RANGE_B=|10V|100V|10V_50]

[[ARM|START]=IMMEDIATE|HW1|HW2|SW1|DISABLE|DISARM]

[GATE=value] 
 [AVERAGE=value]

[MODE=COUNT|COUNT_B|COUNT_GATE|FREQ|TINT_A|TINT_AB|PERIOD]

[HISTERESIS=AUTO|10NSF|300NS|10US]

[TRIG_OUT=NONE|SW1|SW2]

[DOMAIN=SCOUNTER|PC|ALL];

Detail of parameters

VAL=value 
 [0,00000001-10.000.000, 
 default: 0]

Indicates 
 the expected value of the measurement executed with the instrument SCOUNTER.

- 
 For 
 the frequency measurements the units of measurement of the parameter is: 
 Hz and the possible values are included in the interval 0,01-10.000.000.

- 
 For 
 time measurements, the units of measurement of the parameter is: sec and 
 the possible values of the parameter are included in the interval 0,00000001-10.

- 
 For 
 the pulse counter measurements the units of measurement of the parameter 
 is the number of pulses and the possible values of the parameters are 
 included in the interval 1-10.000.000. 
 With the instrument set to operate as a pulse counter, when the number 
 of pulses is equal or higher than the value defined with the parameter 
 VAL the event Compare is generated.

LEVEL_A=value 
 [-100-+100V, default: 0V]

Indicates 
 the trigger level programmed for channel CHA.

LEVEL_B=value 
 [-100-+100V, default: 0V]

Indicates 
 the trigger level programmed for channel CHB.

SLOPE_A=option|value[NEG|POS, 
 default:POS]

Defines 
 the Start Event or first trigger: i.e. the active front of the signal 
 on channel CHA:

NEG | 0 
 The trigger 
 activates on the front of descent of the signal present on channel CHA.

POS | 1 
 The trigger 
 activates on the rising front of the signal present on channel CHA.

SLOPE_B=option|value[NEG|POS, 
 default:POS]

Defines 
 the Start Event or first trigger: i.e. the active front of the signal 
 on CHB:

NEG | 0 
 The trigger 
 activates on the front of descent of the signal present on channel CHB.

POS | 1 
 The trigger 
 activates on the rising front of the signal present on channel CHB.

DELAY_TRIG=value 
 [0,00000002-1sec, 
 default: 0sec]

Defines 
 the delay between the START which took place in the COUNT mode and the 
 measurement execution.

START=option|value 
 [IMMEDIATE|HW1|HW2|SW1|DISABLE|DISARM, 
 default:DISABLE]

Defines 
 the starting mode to execute the measurement. The possible values of the 
 parameter are:

IMMEDIATE | 0 The measurement 
 will start immediately with the programmed triggers.

HW1 | 4 
 The measurement 
 will start when the signal HW1, coming from the outside of the ACL module 
 (RTCIN1) is active.

HW2 | 5 
 The measurement 
 will start when the signal HW2, coming from the outside of the ACL module 
 (RTCIN2) is active.

SW1 | 6 
 The measurement 
 will start with the event Trigger SW1, which can be generated by the 
 instruments IMM and SCOUNTER..

DISABLE | 7 
 The instrument 
 SCOUNTER is disabled.

DISARM | 8 
 is used as 
 Stop Event when the counter has been set to operate in the mode defined 
 with parameter MODE equal to COUNT.

GATE=value 
 [0,001-10sec, default: 0sec]

Defines 
 the width of the acquisition window, i.e. the time to measure the signal.

The 
 default value 0 means AUTO, i.e. the measurement is executed with the 
 parameter GATE calculated according to the value assigned to parameter 
 VAL.

AVERAGE=value 
 [0-1.000, default: 1]

Prepares 
 the instrument to execute the number of measurements defined with parameter 
 AVERAGE and outputs, as a result of the measurement the average value 
 of the measurements. The 
 value 0 indicates that the measurement is executedwith 
 the value of parameter AVERAGE determined according to the value assigned 
 to parameter VAL.

MODE=option|value 
 [COUNT|COUNT_B|COUNT_GATE|FREQ|TINT_A|TINT_AB|PERIOD

, default: COUNT]

Defines 
 the operating mode of the instrument counter, frequency-meter, chronometer 
 and the modes start and stop in the operating mode. The possible values 
 for this parameter are:

COUNT | 0 
 The instrument 
 is set to operate as a counter. It counts the events of the signal 
 on CHA. The starting is specified by the value of the parameter START 
 (IMMEDIATE/HW1/HW2/SW1).

To 
 stop the counting, it is necessary to execute a ~SET 
 SCOUNTER instruction 
 with parameter START set to DISARM.

COUNT_B | 1 
 The instrument 
 is set to operate as a counter. The instrument will count the events 
 of the signal on CHA for the time of the signal present on CHB.

COUNT_GATE | 2 The instrument 
 is set to operate as a counter. The instrument will count the events 
 of the signal on CHA for a time defined with parameter GATE.

FREQ | 3 
 The instrument is set to operate as a frequency-meter. It measures 
 the frequency of the signal present on channel CHA.

TINT_A | 4 
 The instrument is set to operate as a chronomenter. It is measured 
 the time between the first Start Event and the first Stop Event detected 
 on channel CHA.

TINT_AB | 5 
 The instrument is set to operate as a chronometer. The operation 
 is the same as the described above with the parameter set to TINT_A but 
 with the detection of the Stop Event derived from the 
 signal applied to CHB.

PERIOD | 6 
 The instrument is set to operate as a chronometer. It is measured 
 teh period of the signal present on channel CHA.

HISTERESIS=option [AUTO|10US|300NS|10NS, default: AUTO]

Defines 
 the time, after the exceeding of the trigger threshold, where is disabled 
 the instrument capability to detect another event.

The 
 possible values are:

AUTO | 0 
 The parameter sets automatically according to the value of parameter VAL.

10US | 1 
 The disable time is 10s.

300NS | 2 
 The disable time is 300ns.

10NS | 3 
 The disable time is 10ns.

RANGE_A=option|value[10V|100V|10V_50, default: 10V]

Defines 
 the range of the input signal supplied to the instrument, i.e. a scale 
 range value containing the programming value of the instrument. The possible 
 values are:

10V | 1 
 The input 
 signal supplied on channel CHA may range 10V.

100V | 2 
 the input signal supplied on channel CHA may range 100V.

10V_50 | 3 
 The input signal supplied on channel CHA may range 10V, with a 50 input 
 impedance.

INP_A=option|value [NONE|L4|L6, default: NONE]

Defines 
 the line of the ACL module connected to the CHA input.

The 
 possible values of the parameter are:

NONE | 0 
 The CHA input is not connected to any line.

L4 | 4 
 The CHA input is connected to line 4.

L6 | 6 
 The CHA input is connected to line 6.

RANGE_B=option|value[10V|100V|10V_50, default: 10V]

Defines 
 the input signal range supplied to the instrument,i.e. a scale range value 
 containing the programming value of the instrument. The possible values 
 of the parameter are:

10V | 1 
 The input 
 signal supplied on channel CHB may range 10V.

100V | 2 
 The input signal supplied on channel CHB may range 100V.

10V_50 | 3 
 The input signal supplied on channel CHB may range 10V, with a 50 input 
 impedance.

The 
 default value of the parameter INP_CHB is NONE.

INP_B=option|value [NONE|L2|L8, default: NONE]

Defines 
 the line of the ACL module connected to the channel CHB input.

The 
 possible values are:

NONE | 0 
 The input of the channel CHB is not connected to any line.

L2 | 2 
 The input of the channel CHB is connected to line 2.

L8 | 8 
 The input of the channel CHBis connected to line 8.

TRIG_OUT=option|value 
 [NONE|SW1|SW2, 
 default: NONE]

Defines 
 the type of trigger signal output to synchronize with other instruments.

The 
 possible values are:

NONE | 0 
 No trigger signal is output.

SW1 | 1 
 The trigger signal software SW1 is output, syncrhronic with measurement 
 starting.

SW2 | 2 
 The value SW2 indicates the possibility to output a second trigger signal 
 software SW2. Up to now, this function is not implemented.

DOMAIN=option|value [DRA|PC|ALL, default: SCOUNTER]

This 
 parameter allows to synchronize the program execution according to the 
 ACL module status, to the SCOUNTER status or none of them.

The 
 possible values are:

SCOUNTER | 0 
 The parameter 
 is controlled through the ACL module and released at the end of the run 
 SCOUNTER

PC | 1 
 The parameter 
 is controlled through the Main Computer without waiting the SCOUNTER end 
 of run or of the other instruments.

ALL | 2 
 The parameter 
 is controlled through the ACL module and released and the end of run of 
 all the instruments in use.

### 1.1.3 METHOD MEASURE

The 
 method Measure 
 makes available 
 the measurements executed with instrument SCOUNTER, 
 through the method Set.

Syntax

#### VIVA LANGUAGE

~MEAS 
 SCOUNTER [INTO=variable];